# Go REST APP Skeleton

**Go REST APP Skeleton** is a template Golang program that serves as the basic building blocks for building future REST APP servers in POS Malaysia. 


# Contact

NG BOO JIUN - boojiun@pos.com.my

Project Link: [https://gitlab.com/pos_malaysia/go-skeletons/go-skeleton-rest-app](https://gitlab.com/pos_malaysia/go-skeletons/go-skeleton-rest-app)

# Getting Started

Please install Golang first before running this skeleton program. 

To build the binary, run the following script from the root directory.
```
./scripts/build_server.sh
```

If everything goes well, you should get the binary in the ./bin directory. 

Run 
```
./bin/server
```


#  API documentation with Swagger

## Install swag

Download Swag for Go by using :

```
$ go get -u github.com/swaggo/swag/cmd/swag

$ go install github.com/swaggo/swag/cmd/swag@latest
```

Download echo-swagger by using :

```
$ go get -u github.com/swaggo/echo-swagger
```

## Verify swag installation

Make sure that swag can be invoked from command line by running

```
$ swag -v 
```

If you are unable to see the swag version, then add the following lines into your .profile file

```
export GOPATH=/Users/$USER/go
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
```

and run this command:

```
$ source .profile
```

for the lines to take effect.


## Add declarative comments to API source code

Add the comments on each of the API using the [declarative comments format](https://github.com/swaggo/swag#declarative-comments-format)

Here is an example of the declarative comments for the HealthCheck handler.

```
// HealthCheck godoc
// @Summary Show the status of server.
// @Description get the status of server.
// @Tags root
// @Accept */*
// @Produce json
// @Success 200 {object} message
// @Router /healthcheck [get]
```

## Generate the Swagger documentation

Run this command from the root of this project directory to generate the Swagger documentation:

```
$ swag init -g cmd/main.go
```

**NOTE : Whenever there are any changes made to the declarative comments, run the above command again to update the documents.**


## Expose the /docs directory

To expose the generated Swagger documents, first add the following lines into the /internal/routes/routes.go file

```
import (
    _ "track-and-trace-api-server/docs" // docs is generated by Swag CLI, you have to import it.
	echoSwagger "github.com/swaggo/echo-swagger"
)
```

and add

```
    // docs route
	e.GET("/docs/*", echoSwagger.WrapHandler)
```



## View the Swagger documentation

To view the Swagger documents, run this server and point the browser to

http://localhost:1234/docs/index.html





# Testing

To test all the packages, run the test script from the root directory.


```
./scripts/run_all_tests.sh
```



# Folders and files 

## Description of main.go

The main.go file is divided into 3 parts - setup, initialize and wait for shutdown signals.

* Setup Echo server. 

* Initialize the Echo’s routes.

* Echo server will be started by an anonymous goroutine. The **Graceful()** function will listen to any interrupt or kill signal and shutdown the server gracefully. 

## Description of setup.go

* SQL statements that will be used by "gitlab.com/pos_malaysia/golib/database" get initialized here.
  
* Setup Echo to use "gitlab.com/pos_malaysia/golib/logs".  The Zerolog logger is adapted into the Echo web framework through the **lecho** adapter. 

## Description of /pkg/handlers directory

One handler per file instead of putting every handlers into a single file.  
For example, Home handler will be in home.go and HealthCheck handler codes go into healthcheck.go


## Description of /pkg/http/response directory


Where custom response messages are defined.

## Description of /pkg/utilities directory

Place for common utilities functions.


## Description of /cmd directory

Location of main.go and setup.go files. Try to keep main.go as small as possible and place initialization codes into setup.go

## Description of /internal/routes directory

Where routes to handlers relationships are organized.


## Description of /scripts directory

Scripts to perform various test, build, install, analysis, etc operations.


# Sample application 

Please refer to https://gitlab.com/pos_malaysia/go-recipes/sample-database-application for sample application that uses this skeleton.
